HOW TO INSTALL REDIS?
Link: https://redis.io/
Video Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lgWjGkdrExA
Manual Installation: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vPcFJvvJgVA

STEP 1: Update brew first before anything else
code: brew update

STEP 2: Use brew to install redis
code: brew install redis

STEP 3: Start the service
code: brew services start redis
code: redis-cli ping (double check if it's really running, should return pong)

To start the cli: redis-cli
To quit the cli: quit
To stop the service: brew services stop redis
To uninstall redis: brew uninstall redis


Youtube Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HNDtcXVo5ow

What is Redis?
• Redis is an acronym of Remote Dictionary Server
• Redis is a Key-Value Store/Key-Data Structure Store
• Redis is a store/server that stores data as key-value pairs. example: name = Jan
• Redis is a No-SQL db, it does not have tables/rows/columns/functions/procedures
• It also does not use any statements like select, insert, update, delete

What data structures does Redis use?
• Primary Data Structures: String, Lists, Sets, Sorted Sets, Hashes
• Extra Data Structures: bitmaps, hyperloglogs, geospatial indexes

Interaction with data is command based (https://redis.io/commands)

Redis keeps the data in the memory, in the cache and does not write to the disk that makes it super fast

Why use redis?
• Performance - It's superfast
• Simple and Flexible - no defining any table, rows and columns and no inserts, selects, update & delete, read and write is very straightforward
• Durable - can be used as a caching system or full fledge DB, has option to write in the disk (configurable)
• Language Support - https://redis.io/clients
• Compatibility - can be used along with your existing database or used as a second database
• Redis has a master-slave replication feature

How to write data in Redis?
line: SET "name" "Jan"

How to read data from Redis?
line: GET "name" (= Jan)

note: value will always get back to you as a string

How to delete data from Redis?
line: DEL name

How to know if key and value is in the database?
line: EXISTS name

How to get all the keys?
line: KEYS *

How to delete everything?
line: flushall

How to clear terminal?
line: clear

How to set an expiration timer?
line: expire name 10 (name will expire in 10 secs)
line: ttl name (to know how long of a time is left) 
line(shorthand): setex name 10 jan

How to create a list?
line: lpush friends jeff (l in lplush means left)

How to append a value to the left of a list?
line: lpush friends jet

How to append a value to the right of a list?
line: rpush friends jason

How to get the values of the list?
line: lrange friends 0 -1 (starting from index 0 to -1(end))

How to remove a value from the left of a list?
line: lpop friends

How to remove a value from the right of a list?
line: rpop friends

How to create a set(unique values)?
line: sadd hobbies "lifting"

How to get values from a set?
line: smembers hobbies 

How to remove a value from a set?
line: srem hobbies "lifting"

How to create a hash?
line: hset person name Jan

How to get the hash value?
line: hget person name

How to get all hash data?
line: hgetall person

How to delete a hash data?
line: hdel person name

How to check if value exists in a hash?
line: hexists person name